# Decision-Tree-Random-Forest-KNN-SVM-and-Logistics-Regression-using-R-Programming
The research includes the performance study of different Machine Learning algorithms on a variety of large datasets. For analysis, these datasets are gathered from different domains including gaming, marketing and educational & learning. The primary objective is to implement and overcome the limitations associated with Machine Learning methods; to evaluate an efficient predictive model. A Decision Tree Classifier is applied on Chess dataset from gaming domain, which consists of records of different chess board positions. Thus, an optimal model is evaluated by pruning the tree parameters. Furthermore, a Random Forest is implemented, after which its accuracy is compared with Decision Tree model and an efficient model is carried forward to predict the class of the dependent variable. Similarly, effective predictive model is been designed for Letter Recognition dataset holding an educational and learning background. Initially, K Nearest Neighbor model is been trained on this dataset and a scalable model is obtained by setting the appropriate k value.This model is then compared with a Support Vector Machine Classification model which is tuned to its best fit by modifying the cost parameter for the model. Significantly, SVM model outperforms the KNN model acquiring a model accuracy of 97%. Finally, Binomial Logistic Regression is implemented on Tesco dataset from marketing domain. The dataset consists of entries of content card and the expenditure history for each of its customers. Logistics Regression algorithm is implemented to classify the class of their customers to come up with the best suited content card. An accuracy of 65 % is obtained by tuning the regression model. 
